Project initiated 15/12/21

Aims

Hardware:
ESP32 based DTMF transciever outstation for controlling IO via DTMF code commands over a two-way radio.
ESP32 based DTMF-MQTT gateway for connecting the outstations to MQTT

The system is designed to be used with low-cost two-way radios (VHF/UHF) Baofeng UV5R etc that have a DTMF keypad so that the DTMF control messages can be sent by human key-presses of pre-programmed DTMF Strings.


The DMTF receivers will be the MT8870 modules.

The DTMF transmitter will be either the MP3 Player module with 200ms wav files of each tone, or the Holtek 9200b encoder IC.

The Outstation and gateways will implement squelch state and PTT state logic via the ESP32 GPIO.

The use-case is non-licenced operation on PMR446/LDP433 bands and other bands for licenced radio users and amateurs.

There will be a talkie voice feature so users can get state information both by DTMF code and robot synthesised voice announcments


There will be a special decimal message protocol designed for addressing and command coded messages inpsired by basic multi-drop protocols such as modbus.

There will be session-based access security as well 

The aim is to prove that this old sytle of tone-control can be used with IOT in M2M mode and be backwards compatible to be able to be used in a human-machine mode to.

There are many legacy analog FM two-way radio systems (some using repeaters) which are under-utilised in terms of telecommand and telemerty applications which could be made ti exist along-side the voice services.
The superior range offered by FM two-way radio over other wireless IOT systems, and the easy access to DTMF eqipped hand-held radios make this a useful idea.
The fact that there still are many geographical areas which are not served by cellular data services yet there are FM two-way radio systems can make this an ideal option for rural IOT.

DTMF was invented in the early 1960's by Bell Labs.
Radio amatuers have long been using DTMF on FM radio for a range of uses including repeater control, and VIOP/RIOP access control.
Rail-road operators in Australia use DTMF on FM radio to control crossings gates.
DTMF on FM radio is also used for selective calling.








